S3 STORAGE CLASSES 
•	General purpose – s3 standard 
•	S3 standard IA – infrequent access 
•	S3 standard IA – infrequent access – one – zone 
•	S3 glacier instant retrieval 
•	S3 glacier flexible retrieval 
•	S3 glacier Deep archive 
•	S3 intelligent tiering  

S3 requester pay
Requester or the downloading user must pay for the network cost. 
Use case: Sharing large dataset to another account. 

S3 event notification 
Triggering an event when you do api related activity in S3 
1.	SNS
2.	SQS
3.	Lambda 
Using the AWS services resource access policy 

S3 baseline performance 
3500 request (put/get/delete) per second per prefix in a bucket. 
For performance use the s3 multi part upload and S3 transfer acceleration option to optimum S3 performance usage. 

S3 byte-Range fetches 
•	Can specify and download only the small portion of the large dataset.
•	Can mention specific bytes of the header of the file to download. 
S3 select and glacier select 
•	Filter using the sql query and get the data from s3 
•	Less network transfer/less cost/less CPU 

S3 Batch operation 
Use S3 Batch operation to perform bulk operation on s3 objects 
Use case: encrypt un-encrypted objects
Note: S3 inventory to list s3 object 
S3 inventory -> S3 select -> S3 batch 


AWS Networking basic  
IP is designed with Octets (a group of eight digits) numeric values example: 0.0.0.0
The 1st  four and last IP of the CIDR block cannot be used for any resources. 
They are 
1.	10.0.0.0 – Network address 
2.	10.0.0.1 – VPC router 
3.	10.0.0.2 – DNS server 
4.	10.0.0.3 – Future use 
5.	10.0.0.255 – Network broadcaster address 

CNAME : A record to point to a non-root domain
Eg . myaws.cert.com -> myapp.cert.com  
ALIAS : A record to point to any / domain including root domain but it cannot to be pointed to EC2 instance. 
Eg . myaws.cert.com ->www.cert.com
RDS Proxy 
It is a RDS feature used to make DB more resilient to failover by sharing connection using connection pools. 

EC2  instance store : it is type of data storage provided by AWS 
•	High performance hard disk
•	Better I/O 
•	Risk of data loss  
Disaster Recovery 
•	RPO – Recovery Point Objective 
•	RTO – Recovery Time Objective 

RPO <------(Data loss)----------->Disaster<-----(Downtime)------> RTO

Strategies 
1.	Backup and restore : high RPO/High RTO & low cost 
2.	Pilot light : Core/small version of the application running  where the RPO and RTO is low
3.	Warm standby : full application running in smaller capacity and can be scaled into fully functioning application in few minutes. 
4.	Multi-site : lowest recovery time and a full production ready system running in the cloud. 
 
Database Migration System 
It is AWS migration service and typically used by installing the DMS into EC2 instance and start the migration. 
Source DB (eg. On-prem MS SQL server) -------> DMS (ec2)---------> Target DB (MS RDS server ) 
SCT: Scheme conversion tool used when there are different DB engines involved in the migration where the SCT is installed in the On-prem servers.  
Source DB (eg. On-prem Oracle server) -------> DMS (ec2)---------> Target DB (MS RDS server ) 

RDS / Aurora Mysql/PostgresSQL migration 
RDS -------> Aurora Mysql 
1.	Take a snapshot of the RDS  Mysql Aurora Mysql 
2.	Create Aurora read replica from the RDS and when the replication is zero lag promote to its own DB and it takes time and high cost. 

External MySql to Aurora Mysql 
1.	Use precoma to get the backup and update it to the S3 and the from there upload it to Mysql Aurora. 
2.	Use Mysqldump utility. 

Exam tip : 
EC2 in ALB can check IP of the the client / Application by X-forwarded-for header in the request or X-forward-Port/X-forward-Proto for part. 

